# Heterogeneous Computing

The course introduces the latest research and development in heterogeneous computer systems on the cloud. This course emphasizes the need for specialization and domain-specific computing platforms on the cloud and expands the principles of computer architecture to cover a more extensive system with a combination of heterogeneous processing elements. In particular, this course focuses on empowering FPGAs for cloud computing with a focus on Xilinx cloud FPGAs solution. In this context, the course will cover fundamental differences between the general-purpose latency-optimized processors (e.g., ARM and RISC-V), throughput-optimized processors (as in NVIDIA and AMD GPUs), and reconfigurable fabrics (e.g., Xilinx FPGAs) for application/domain specific specialization. The lectures also discuss performance models and emerging architecture models for hardware accelerators. Then, the course provides an in-depth understanding of FPGAs programming models, OpenCL-HLS tools, SDX, and Xilinx ML design flow on AWS.

On the programming side, this course primarily focuses on OpenCL as the major unified programming model across heterogeneous devices (Multi-Core, GPUs, FPGAs). The course also focuses on OpenCL-HLS design flow. and fundamental differences programming and architectural differences between FPGAs vs GPUs when running massively parallel applications.  In addition, the course provides an introduction to other heterogeneous programming models such as CUDA and OpenACC.

In a broader perspective, the course also covers system-level challenges of heterogeneous systems including communication fabric, unified memory, cache coherency, and memory virtualization.
